Tal Heinrich.
She is
spokesperson for the Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
And Tal, it's
great to be with you,
of course, here in New York.
So,
you know, just to start with the
the limited flooding of the tunnels
that we understand the IDF is doing.
Israel says it's
doing on a limited basis in tunnels
where they do not believe
hostages are being held prisoner.
Biden says that is an assertion
that he cannot confirm it.
How do you know for sure
that there are no hostages
in the tunnels being flooded?
First, Erin,
regarding the tunnels,
I cannot comment
on operational military activity
happening on the ground or anything
strategic moving ahead.
This is a question
that you will have to refer to the IDF.
What I can say
is that we said in the past,
the IDF spokesperson has said
that we're looking at various ways
to eliminate these tunnels.
We have eliminated
much of the tunnel infrastructure,
but there are still many of them,
as you heard from
from your reporter
also in the area of Khan Yunis,
where our forces are now operating.
And obviously, when we work on the ground
to eliminate the Hamas
service regime in Gaza,
the hostages
situation is the top of mind.
Yes.
I'm curious, though, and I understand
they're saying where they don't believe
the hostages are.
But a question to you
just on an intelligence basis,
if Israel knows where they are not,
how do you know where they are?
Well, again,
this is a question for the IDF.
What we know
is that Hamas
in the response to pressure.
We have seen the release of hostages
so far
based on the outline that we agreed upon,
because thanks to the military pressure
and we continue to hit them hard
because we want to reach
the twofold goal,
the mission
that we have defined for this war.
So President Biden has warned
Israel it's losing support. Right.
He said to the Prime minister, Netanyahu,
you need to change your tactics and
and likely your government.
Is there a response
from the prime minister?
Well, first,
Israel is a democratic states.
They're the ones who
choose the government,
as you know, or the people of Israel.
And right now,
my country is not dealing with politics.
Aaron.
From left to right,
there's a public consensus.
We're all united right now
around the goal.
And the goal is to defeat Hamas.
You know,
the terrorists targeted us
on October 7th.
They didn't ask
who voted for who, for which party.
They didn't care.
And, you know,
some of these hardest hit communities
and I know that you've been
you've been to the southern areas
are honestly the people
who are most strong
supporters of the Palestinian cause
in certain areas.
And they of them were in those kibbutzim.
Yes. Right. So
in terms of the civilians,
General Clark
was talking about how when you fled,
there's unknown consequences
at this point.
Could involve, say,
buildings coming down. Right.
Obviously unknown at this point
as he lays it out.
A lot of civilians have died.
We know that.
Israel says
the IDF says they've killed at least 7000
Hamas members.
Obviously,
we can't independently confirm that.
But I did recently speak to Jonathan
Conricus, IDF spokesperson,
and I asked him about a report
that said that senior
Israeli military officials
said that they were basically killing
two civilians for every Hamas member,
and he called that
a, quote, tremendously positive ratio.
That if it was two civilians
for every one Hamas,
that's tremendously positive.
How do you see it?
Well, it depends what you compare
Israel to.
If you compare Israel to perfection.
Of course, nobody's nobody's perfect.
We don't want to see
any civilian casualty.
We want to
ease the civilian suffering in Gaza.
The IDF is going to such extent that
no other Western military,
no other military has has done before
to safeguard the civilian population
in an enemy war zone.
And I think that Israel
is really defining
the gold standard here of urban warfare.
And if you compare the campaigns in Iraq
and Afghanistan, the civilian to combat
casualty ratio, that then Israel, once
the dust would settle,
you will see that
Israel compares favorably.
And I understand that.
I understand that sort academically.
If those numbers are put out there
when you talk about the gold standard.
But yet what we are confronted with
every day
is a horrific loss of Palestinian life
and a lot of anguish and anguish.
It is hard to hear
that being the gold standard.
Every civilian casualty
is a huge tragedy.
There hasn't been a
war in human history,
even the most justified ones
that haven't seen a certain
extent of collateral damage.
But again,
what we are doing on the ground,
the fact that we are
telling the civilian population
where our soldiers are, are entering
and when this is unprecedented,
and I'm sure that some,
you know,
family and friends of us
armed forces, service members
watching us right now would wonder
who does that.
Who announces where the troops
are exactly going
to operate to the civilians
And the terrorists would know
this is what the IDF is doing
because we're a moral military I country.
I want to give you a chance to respond
to another report
that aired on CNN last night.
My colleague
Nima Elbagir was reporting
on some of the money
that has gone to Hamas.
Obviously, a lot of money in recent years
and questions
about whether Netanyahu's policies
actually aided and abetted that
by allowing hundreds
of millions of dollars
in actual cash to go into Gaza.
That from from Hamas.
Despite concerns
from Netanyahu's own government,
some of which were raised by then
Education Minister Naftali Bennett,
who spoke to NEMA.
And here's what he said.
I stopped the cash
suitcases because I believe
that's a horrendous mistake to allow
Hamas to have all these suitcases
full of cash
that goes directly to rearming themselves
against the Israelis.
Why would we feed them
cash to kill us?
So when he says he stopped it,
he's referring to
when he became prime minister
by saying he stopped the Netanyahu policy
that he refers to as cash in suitcases.
Does Netanyahu believe
now that he made a mistake
by allowing cash to go in?
Well, again, this is a we allowed money
to go inside Gaza,
not for Hamas, obviously.
And it's not only a policy
that happened, by the way,
during this government,
the previous Israeli government,
because we wanted the money
to reach the Palestinian people,
to fix the water system that we saw Hamas
turn pipes, water pipes into missiles,
the sewage system and so forth.
We wanted to
you knew it
wasn't being used for those purposes
because you could see the system.
Well.
Well,
listen, it's a major problem every time.
And I think it's
a repeating pattern here in history.
Every time the state of Israel
has cut more slack
to the Palestinian people, it backfired.
It was answered with more bloodshed,
more murder.
And if you go back,
you know,
you go back to the 1947 partition plan
of the United Nations.
They we said yes.
They said no,
They started a war against us.
We retreated from Gaza.
We signed the Oslo Accords.
We got suicide bombings in our cities.
We in 2005, the disengagement from Gaza,
we got missiles
raining down on our communities.
And now we allowed in more, you know,
fake rehabilitation efforts.
And we cut more slack
to Palestinian workers
who wanted to work in Israel,
expanded the fishing zone.
What did we get?
The October 7th massacre.
It's a repeating pattern.
All right.
Well, I appreciate your time
and thank you very much.
It's good to see you in person.